# CS-320

## How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
To make sure my code and software is functional and secure, I can focus on validating the code I make and testing it thoroughly. It is a good mindset to assume users will interact with the software in different ways, so I must always design assuming the code will output errors, so I can implement safeguards for how the app should behave in the event of failures/invalid inputs (for example, entries that are too long can result in exceptions). I used JUnit testing during this course to verify all the classes and their behavior. With JUnit tests, you are able to see how much of the code has been executed with/without errors. That way I was able to aim for a coverage of 80%+, so I guaranteed 100% of what I worked on was correctly coded.

## How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
To interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program, it is important for me to first identify the goals of the project by speaking with potential users and clients. It is important to first understand what the problem the user wants solved. This can help give the project a clear direction. Once the requirements are defined, I can proceed to break those down into pass/fail criterias for running test cases. For example, if a user wants to add and delete things like contacts, I can design the code to add/delete them. But I must also validate the data to make sure only valid data is accepted, and avoid bugs like duplicate data to keep it organized. This makes it more likely that I am staying close to the vision the client wants while keeping the app user friendly.

## How do I approach designing software?
When designing software, I believe it is important to break the project down into smaller manageable bits, then bring them together after testing the isolated parts for functionality. For example, I can break a bigger app into smaller components like ContactService, TaskService, and AppointmentService. Those separate classes have different focuses but are still components of a bigger app I can work on one at a time. Before I code, I should first figure out what each component is meant to do and what specific code features it should contain. I have to design it efficiently so it's easier to expand upon it. The naming should also be specific for future code revision so other coders can tell what each part of the code is meant to do. In my previous work, my naming did not specify pass/fail as much, so it could have been confusing to review. In my project version, I made sure to clarify pass/fail with the names. It is also a good idea to code with OOP in mind.
